<H1> Journal </H1> 
<p> This week I have been focusing my thoughts on how one can interpret data collected as part of digital history. The different ways one can read digital historical data can really affect what one can get out of that data. Numerical data makes it easy to take a broad view of one’s dataset, which in turn helps identify which areas can be targeted for closer reading. Thinking about the implications of this really helped bring home the use of gathering numerical data for large bodies of text. I thought about how I could use this in some of my personal genealogical research. I’ve been trying to make a timeline of what my great-grandfather was doing while in France during the first world war. It is terrible time consuming to read through soldiers journals trying to find record of what he or his division were doing. If some of those journals had been digitised I could plug in a couple keywords to find when they are most frequently used, then do a close reading of just those sections. This example led me to further consider how I could possible use the digital reading techniques we have learned this week to analyse journals like this. Creating a ‘dialog’ with the text by picking out certain words I could get an idea of how some of the soldiers were feeling during certain periods. This could help answer questions that would be hard to answer otherwise. It would be interesting to know when the soldiers use more distressing language and see how it correlates with different offenses or troop movements. I wrote a paper last semester about how soldiers in the trenches used humor as a coping mechanism, and reading numerical linguistics techniques like we have used this week could have helped me verify my hypothesis by allowing me to see how humorous words correlate with tragic ones. I can really see the advantage of using linguistic data models to both answer large questions about the data, and also to engage in a dialog wit the data and develop even further questions for closer reading. </p>
